first guest tonight is an emmy-winning
actor
rapper and the first rizz ever to be
nominated for a best actor oscar
the film is called sound of metal it is
on amazon prime video now say hello
to rizz ahmed hey riz how are you
congratulations
good to see you so rizz
i don't know if you remember you were
here talking about this movie
like a year ago maybe more than a year
ago
we premiered the trailer for the movie
here on the show
and now as a result of us premiering
that trailer on our show you got six
academy award nominations so you're
welcome i guess
we owe you everything i knew you'd come
back knocking for payment at some point
got away with it maybe kim was gonna
forget it's like nah
of course he's like thank you man for
your support it feels like
such a crazy journey you know because um
i don't know just just just to be here
in this position to have these six
nominations for a film that
you know we made against the odds and so
close to all of our hearts it's an
amazing feeling
when you got nominated for best actor
who's the first person you called
to let them know
um my parents parents yeah right that's
the way to go my parents but to be
honest they were already awake so they
kind of let me know ah
so it was it was a pointless phone call
really
i want to share a tweet you posted uh
after
the uh nomination was announced you
wrote my cousin adnan
legit didn't know what the oscars were
why all the guests i won best client
engagement award for the financial
quarter
other cousin steps in nah it's not as
big as that because he didn't win
anything
it's more like getting an email from
your boss thanks boss
so i don't know what's going on with
your cousins but i would say
i'd maintain this is absolutely nothing
like getting an email from your boss
kind of similar i guess um
are they serious or are they goofing no
this is a real thing
this really happened i mean i should put
it in context it's like it's the only
cousin of mine relative of mine only
human being i know who doesn't know what
the other kids are
[Laughter]
you know it's good keeps you grounded
it's actually like a
it was like a family zoom that my sister
had organized every now and again you
know i've got a big family so
we do a group zoom we started in the
pandemic so we did that and my sister
said you know be a chance to
congratulate rizwan
and it was on that call that adnan was
like dude was the big deal
yeah no no one organized a group zoom
when i went
i got the front parking space at my
office but yeah
and did you congratulate him on his
client engagement award
yeah that's a really good point i feel
like we should do that now you know what
go yes go or maybe you want to save it
for the acceptance speech maybe
[Applause]
yeah i just want to say shout out adnan
it really deserves all the credit
the best client engagement of the
financial core
yeah wow so so your family has mixed
feelings about the whole thing
i guess my family my family's super
supportive and happy is jesus
yeah and to be honest i was at nine he
just didn't know but that's cool in a
way right to keep it grounded i feel
like this whole award season has been
really really grounded in a positive way
yeah because you're like here i'm like
well
i'm on jimmy kimmel i'm talking to you
um as soon as it's done i go and go
you know wash the dishes it's just
there's my pajamas there's grounded and
then there's
two grounded and i think your cousin hit
the two grounded area there
now you learned by the way the movie's
great and you are fantastic in the movie
i
have actually been telling a lot of
people who watch it
you know i wish this movie i wish that
most people would see it in a movie
theater because it is
the sound part of it is so important so
hopefully people have good
television speakers at home but one of
the things that you
did is you learned uh you had to learn
sign language american sign language
uh in order to play this role because
your character's
losing his hearing and how long did it
take you to learn how long does it take
to learn
i mean it's like any language you can
just keep learning right
um uh you know i have to say that it's
it's
this film works on multiple levels
because on one level yeah it would be
great if you've
got a great sound system or you want to
listen on headphones but this film is
also made for deaf audiences
so every print of this film is captioned
you know um
universally so deaf audiences can also
enjoy it and also there's
bits of the film where i'm just speaking
in sign language and it's
there's no subtitles and that's just for
deaf audiences
so hopefully the film brings those two
audiences together and it caters to both
of them as well
but i mean i i learned sign language for
seven and a half months with my sign
instructor jeremy lee stone
who's amazing dude and i've heard he's
the best yeah jeremy's brilliant man i
mean
he's somebody who um taught me american
sign language but he also
taught me a lot more than that um i feel
like
hanging out with the deaf community
taught me what listening really is
and i feel like deaf people and
um the deaf people that were mentoring
me at that time preparing for this film
are the best listeners i've ever met
because this thing's about your
attention it's about your focus about
you
you know holding space for someone
else's energy
so jeremy taught me a great deal and it
really fed into the character
and in a way changed my life as a human
being just the way that i
communicate interest that's very
interesting and did
it's easy to mess up because many of the
words in the letter they're they look
very similar
did you have any problems were there any
times where just people didn't know
what you were saying well it's a very
rich
and complex and beautiful language and
when you're learning any language you
can screw it up um
actually my director darius marda um
he screwed it up pretty badly every day
on set actually because
you know we had a lot of deaf actors and
we had interpreters and on set i was
you know both on and off camera speaking
in sign language at that point i was a
lot more fluent
and so darius was trying to come in and
join the party and
um he would go up to people and he
thought he was saying nice to meet you
but he was actually saying nice to you
[Applause]
and what is the difference how do like
how what's the i wonder if we you know
what i wonder if you said that
if we'd have to blur out your hand i'm
not doing it i'm going to do it here oh
you're not doing it right now
nice what's nice what's nice too then
why it's nice like nice
nice it's like nice nice too and then
you go
like this or how does it
[Applause]
oh is this is something wrong with this
yeah now that you mentioned it i think
it must have been at least slightly
intentional
you never know oh we're going to take a
break rizz ahmed is with us the movie is
the sound of metal we'll be right back
oh
amazon prime video he is nominated
for uh an oscar for best actor who are
you taking to the oscars with you
yeah i'm gonna be taking my wife oh
that's a good one
to take you right you were expecting me
to take you
would be nice i mean uh actually we were
there together once before you were a
presenter the year i hosted
yeah yeah when all hell broke loose at
the end right
you're not presenting this here are you
man because every time you present
something crazy
they've decided never to have a host
again um
so you're bringing your wife which uh
you did not have a wife last time i
chatted with you this was uh you had the
uh covet marriage yes
that's a that's a weird way of labeling
yes it is yeah
it's just a coffee it's just to get me
through lockdown
[Laughter]
but soon it's done man it's a marriage
marriage
did you think about that did you think
well maybe this is maybe in the middle
of this pandemic
did it give you pause and make you think
like maybe i should wait
uh or maybe it's better to move faster
because
who knows what's going to happen
so i guess one thing that was good about
getting married
in lockdown is it gives you a really
good excuse for not having a really big
wedding
oh that's true you don't have to invite
cousin adnan to your wedding you know
sorry dude i would love to invite you
bro yeah
that's that's that's that's the good
upside to it yeah right yeah did you
have a very small wedding then i assume
yeah it was very small um it was like in
the backyard
um it's very very chill very intimate
not many people there at all just like
you know
very immediate family um
and i mean to be honest it was it was
kind of
beautiful for that reason you know it
was just very relaxed very intimate and
you didn't have to worry about like
making sure hundreds of guests are okay
and
loads of randoms just knocking about and
you're like is that did we invite that
person who's that
yeah i thought that was your cousin is
that my cousin
were you able to make it a surprise or
was it a surprise your proposal
i thought you're gonna i thought you
meant the wedding oh no surprise
surprised to get married today
[Laughter]
she thought she was headed out for a
barbecue
no i was talking about the proposal
itself yeah so i think she thought it
was a joke because it just
uh you know we went out to the park
there's a few things you could do at
that point and lock down
and we'll kind of have a little picnic
and
you know pop the question and she looked
up and was like um
are you joking um and actually maybe the
way that i proposed didn't
you know didn't help because she's she's
a she's a novelist she's amazing with
words so she loves
um a bit of scrabble so we were actually
playing scrabble
and they did that corny thing where i
stole all the correct letters up front
and i spelled
out i love that i like that
that is is that cool nice and corny i
never heard of anyone doing that before
a baby
yeah well really yeah no have you do you
know of people doing
doing that before after this i hope
everyone's going to be doing it well
yeah i'm sure now but you're a
trendsetter is what you are
did you get to oh did you not did you
have a bat you didn't have a bachelor
party then i guess
no i had a i had a bachelor's zoom oh
yeah a bachelor zoom
i said god only knows what that is that
was
[Laughter]
with your friends i hope
no i just i just sent out a link anyone
who wants to join
jump in would it be bad for him to have
a bachelor party after the wedding
it's a great idea i like where you're
headed with this yeah right
let's do this listen here's what we're
gonna do next time you're
back here in studio with us guillermo
and i are going to take you next door to
hooters
and uh and who knows what'll happen
we'll invite the hollywood boulevard
superheroes everybody will be there
it'll be good times
you need yeah got when you were owed i
think well congratulations on
uh on your marriage and your oscar
nomination
of very exciting i wish you a lot of
luck on sunday night
the movie is great it's called sound of
metal it's available now on amazon
prime video rizz ahmed everybody thanks
riz
we'll be back with andrew dave thanks
for watching remember every time you
click the subscribe button
one of your enemies gets destroyed